# Variability in reported midpoints of (in)activation for cardiac INa

This repository contains the data and code accompanying the paper 

> Variability in reported midpoints of (in)activation of cardiac INa.
> Michael Clerx, Paul G. A. Volders, Gary R. Mirams.
> Journal of General Physiology, 2025
> https://doi.org/10.1085/jgp.202413621

Except for the schematic overview of Figure 1, all figures, tables and numerical results in the text can be recreated by running the scripts in this repository, as detailed below.

The data is mostly derived from an sqlite database (see `base/midpoints.sqlite`) that was created in 2016 for the study

> Predicting changes to INa from missense mutations in human SCN5A.
> Michael Clerx, Jordi Heijman, Pieter Collins, Paul G.A. Volders.
> Scientific Reports.
> https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-30577-5
> and https://github.com/MichaelClerx/mutations-scn5a

Additional meta-data was added to the database in 2024 and 2025.

## Requirements

The database can be opened with any [SQLite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQLite) compatible software.
The included scripts require Python 3.6 or newer, with the libraries listed in `requirements.txt`.

## Figures

- Figure 2 is generated by `f2-all.py`
- Figure 3 is generated by `f3-correlation.py`
- Figure 4 is generated by `f4-subgroups.py`
- Figure 5 is generated by `f5-experimental.py`
- Supplemental Figure 1 is generated by `s1-regression.py`

## Tables

- Supplementary table 1 is generated by `t1-multi-exp.py`
- Supplementary table 2 is generated by `t2-cell-counts.py`
- Supplementary table 3 is generated by `t3-all-midpoints.py`

## Numbers

Numbers that appear in the text can be obtained using the scripts listed below.

- `d0-90th-percentile.py`
  - Calculates and outputs the 5th-95th percentile range of a normal distribution.
- `d1-counts.py`
  - Number of studies surveyed.
  - Number of reports (1 or more per publication) of mean `Va` and/or `Vi`.
  - Number of reports of mean `Va` AND `Vi`.
  - Total cell counts
- `d2-sigmas.py`
  - Min, max, median of standard deviation in mean `Va` in `Vi`.
- `d3-means.py`
  - Min, max, median, and range of mean `Va` and `Vi`.
- `d4-within-study.py`
  - Range of between-experiment variability in two studies with more than 1
    experiment.
- `d5-temperatures`
  - Minimum and maximum temperatures.
- `d8-ljp`
  - Number of studies with LJP correction
- `f3-correlation.py`
  - Best fit slope and offset.
  - Pearson correlation coefficient.
  - Fixed-slope fit offset
